doc: nrf-bm: libraries: add Peer Manager (#390)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf-bm: doc/nrf-bm/libraries/bluetooth/peer_manager.rst

> .. _lib_peer_manager:

Reviewer: Also wondering, in general, if we should use terms as "we" and "you" in the documentation. My preference is that it should not be used for conceptual documentation at least.

> .. _lib_peer_manager:

Author: I would say that it should follow typical NCS wording, will check with Bartosz.

> .. _lib_peer_manager:

Reviewer 2: 1st person (we) should be avoided at all cost and converted to passive voice ; 'you' is very common and absolutely ok

===================

The Peer Manager can be used to create a whitelist that restricts which peers are allowed to connect.
To construct a whitelist, you must provide a list of peer IDs.
The whitelist will then contain the addresses and IRKs of the specified peers.
Note that if you include the Peer Manager in an application and want to use whitelisting, the whitelist must be created by the Peer Manager.

Architecture
************

The Peer Manager consists of the following modules:

Security Manager & Dispatcher
=============================

When the application or a connected peer device requests a secured link, the Security Manager & Dispatcher is responsible for handling the required procedure.
It interfaces with the SoftDevice in creating the secured connection, stores and retrieves the exchanged keys, and manages the pairing procedure.
The module consists of two parts: the Security Manager and the Security Dispatcher.
The Security Manager stores security parameters, keeps track of the current state, and coordinates the pairing procedure.
The Security Dispatcher interfaces with the SoftDevice and the non-volatile storage to do the actual pairing.

LESC support
============

> You can enable support for LESC pairing by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_LESC_ENABLED` Kconfig option.

Author: Good idea

Peer Database
=============

The Peer Database holds the stored data for all peer IDs.
It provides functions to create unique peer IDs, write and read data for a specific peer ID, free a peer ID, and enumerate all existing peer IDs.

Peer Data Storage
=================

The Peer Data Storage module is an interface between the Peer Database and the `lib_bm_zms`_ library.
It is responsible for storing the peer data in non-volatile storage.
To do so, it uses the Bare Metal Zephyr Memory Storage library with a dedicated storage partition in the board Device Tree.
In addition, the Peer Data Storage module assigns peer IDs.

Configuration
*************

The library is enabled and configured entirely using the Kconfig system.
Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PEER_MANAGER` Kconfig option to enable the library.

Some features are disabled by default and can be optionally enabled:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_LESC_ENABLED` - Enables LESC support in Peer Manager.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_RA_PROTECTION_ENABLED` - Enables protection against repeated pairing attempts in Peer Manager.

Author: The original structure follows preexisting documentation (e.g. `ble_conn_params`).

* Optionally, call the :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function to set the security parameters. If you do not call this function, pairing and bonding is not supported. See :ref:`Security parameters`.
* Subscribe to the Peer Manager events by calling the :c:func:`pm_register` function.

The following code example shows how the Peer Manager is initialized:

.. code-block:: c

   static int peer_manager_init(bool erase_bonds)
   {
      uint32_t err;
      ble_gap_sec_params_t sec_param;

      err = pm_init();
      if (err) {
         return -EFAULT;
      }

      if (erase_bonds) {
         pm_peers_delete();
      }

      /* Security parameters to be used for all security procedures. */
      sec_param = (ble_gap_sec_params_t) {
         .bond = SEC_PARAM_BOND,
         .mitm = SEC_PARAM_MITM,
         .lesc = SEC_PARAM_LESC,
         .keypress = SEC_PARAM_KEYPRESS,
         .io_caps = SEC_PARAM_IO_CAPABILITIES,
         .oob = SEC_PARAM_OOB,
         .min_key_size = SEC_PARAM_MIN_KEY_SIZE,
         .max_key_size = SEC_PARAM_MAX_KEY_SIZE,
         .kdist_own.enc = 1,
         .kdist_own.id = 1,
         .kdist_peer.enc = 1,

>          .kdist_peer.id = 1,

Reviewer: Ok to not do fir this release.

      };

      err = pm_sec_params_set(&sec_param);
      if (err) {
         LOG_ERR("pm_sec_params_set() failed, err: 0x%x", err);
         return -EFAULT;
      }

      err = pm_register(pm_evt_handler);
      if (err) {
         LOG_ERR("pm_register() failed, err: 0x%x", err);
         return -EFAULT;
      }
   }

Usage
*****

Security parameters
===================

The :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function configures how the Peer Manager behaves when securing the link, thus it configures bonding, pairing, and encryption.
The configuration is given by security parameters (:c:struct:`ble_gap_sec_params_t`).
These security parameters are also used directly in the SoftDevice security API and contain the parameters that are sent over-the-air during the bonding procedure.
See the `Bluetooth Core Specification`_ (sections 3.H.3.5.1 and 3.H.3.5.2) for more information.

The :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function rejects invalid security parameters.
See the mentioned Bluetooth specification sections or the verification function in the Peer Manager source code for the constraints on the parameters.

The following list shows the required security parameters for common use cases:

> * No pairing/bonding: ``NULL`` (or do not call the :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function)

Reviewer: Also, can NULL be used to unset the security parameters?

> * No pairing/bonding: ``NULL`` (or do not call the :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function)

Author: > Also, can NULL be used to unset the security parameters?

That's exactly what happens. Do you think this section needs some extra clarification?

> * No pairing/bonding: ``NULL`` (or do not call the :c:func:`pm_sec_params_set` function)

Reviewer: I think that should be added, yes.

* Pairing, no bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = false;
   sec_param.mitm = false;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = false;
   sec_param.min_key_size = 7;
   sec_param.max_key_size = 16;
   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 0;

* Just Works bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = false;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = false;
   sec_param.min_key_size = 7;
   sec_param.max_key_size = 16;
   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 1;

* Passkey bonding with keyboard capabilities:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = true;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_KEYBOARD_ONLY;
   sec_param.oob = false;

> The rest of the parameters are the same as for Just Works bonding.

Reviewer 3: On that note, in the `peer_manager_init()` code snippet above, the structure members are set using array initialization list, so you will need to modify this code if you were to try and copy it into there.

* OOB bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = true;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = true;

The rest of the parameters are the same as for Just Works bonding.

* Disallow IRKs:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   /* Arbitrary parameters removed. */
   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 0;

Event handling
==============

> How to handle Peer Manager events depends on the application.

Reviewer: I think this sentence can be removed.

> The Peer Manager provides different kinds of events; some must be handled, while others can be disregarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Peer Manager provides different kinds of events.
Some events must be handled, while others can be disregarded.
```

Reviewer: We should state which events that must be handled here (or which event handlers that must be registered).

Reviewer: Sentences will be removed at next push. We can improve and be more explicit later.

> The SDK provides a set of event handlers, both for Peer Manager events and SoftDevice events, that can be used by the application as it sees fit, see :header:`peer_manager_handler.h`.

Reviewer: We should not give details on the SDK itself here. Keep it to what applies for the peer manager. I think that would make this section a bit clearer.

The :c:func:`pm_handler_on_pm_evt` function provides basic event handling needed for Peer Manager operation, while the other handlers provide additional functionality.
The handlers can be provided to the :c:func:`pm_register` function directly, or called from the application event handler, as in the following example where the application needs to also start scanning as a result of a Peer Manager event.

.. code-block:: c

   static void pm_evt_handler(pm_evt_t const *p_evt)
   {
      pm_handler_on_pm_evt(p_evt);
      pm_handler_disconnect_on_sec_failure(p_evt);
      pm_handler_flash_clean(p_evt);

      switch (p_evt->evt_id) {
      case PM_EVT_PEERS_DELETE_SUCCEEDED:
         scan_start();
         break;

      default:
         break;
      }
   }

> We strongly recommend using the :c:func:`pm_handler_on_pm_evt` and :c:func:`pm_handler_disconnect_on_sec_failure` functions event handlers (as seen above) in central applications to ensure authentication of the peer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For central applications, it is strongly recommended to implement the :c:func:`pm_handler_on_pm_evt` and :c:func:`pm_handler_disconnect_on_sec_failure` event handlers to ensure authentication of the peer.
```

.. _lib_peer_manager:

Bluetooth: Peer Manager
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peer Manager library handles BLE link security procedures and can be used to initiate pairing, bonding, and encryption, as well as to manage device whitelists.

Overview
********

The Peer Manager provides functionality for:

* Configuring and enforcing link security parameters
* Establishing encrypted connections and reusing stored keys
* Creating and storing bonds and GATT data in flash
* Managing application-specific peer data
* Notifying bonded peers when the GATT database changes
* Building whitelists based on peer information

Managing link security
======================

After a BLE connection is established by the SoftDevice, the Peer Manager is responsible for the pairing procedure and, if requested, for creating a bond.
Before a pairing procedure can be initiated, the application must configure the security parameters that are used.
For example, these parameters contain the security level of the link, information if bonding should be performed, and if so, what data should be shared during bonding.

> See the :c:struct:`ble_gap_sec_params_t` structure for detailed information about the security parameters.

Reviewer 3: It is part of the SoftDevice API.

> See the :c:struct:`ble_gap_sec_params_t` structure for detailed information about the security parameters.

Reviewer 2: Ok, we cannot link to this yet, it should be available for 1.0.0.

  In this case, the Peer Manager will start rejecting all procedures.

* Pairing, no bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = false;
   sec_param.mitm = false;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = false;
   sec_param.min_key_size = 7;
   sec_param.max_key_size = 16;
   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 0;

* Just Works bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = false;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = false;
   sec_param.min_key_size = 7;
   sec_param.max_key_size = 16;
   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 1;

* Passkey bonding with keyboard capabilities:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = true;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_KEYBOARD_ONLY;
   sec_param.oob = false;

> The rest of the parameters are the same as for Just Works bonding.

Reviewer 3: Remember to indent this text as well, when and if indenting the code blocks.

* OOB bonding:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;
   sec_param.mitm = true;
   sec_param.lesc = 0;
   sec_param.keypress = 0;
   sec_param.io_caps = BLE_GAP_IO_CAPS_NONE;
   sec_param.oob = true;

The rest of the parameters are the same as for Just Works bonding.

* Disallow IRKs:

.. code-block:: c

   sec_param.bond = true;

>    /* Arbitrary parameters removed. */

Reviewer 3: I'm having a hard time grasping this comment. Should it be removed or can we say something like  /* Non-essential parameters removed for clarity. */?

Or should we add the "The rest of the parameters are the same as for Just Works bonding.". Not sure if that is correct though.

   sec_param.kdist_own.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_own.id = 0;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.enc = 1;
   sec_param.kdist_peer.id = 0;

Event handling
==============

How to handle Peer Manager events depends on the application.
The Peer Manager provides different kinds of events; some must be handled, while others can be disregarded.

> The SDK provides a set of event handlers, both for Peer Manager events and SoftDevice events, that can be used by the application as it sees fit, see :header:`peer_manager_handler.h`.

Reviewer 3: `:header:'peer_manager_handler.h'` does not seem to render. The `:header:` part shows up in the docs.

> The SDK provides a set of event handlers, both for Peer Manager events and SoftDevice events, that can be used by the application as it sees fit, see :header:`peer_manager_handler.h`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK provides a set of event handlers, both for Peer Manager events and SoftDevice events, that can be used by the application as it sees fit, see :file:`peer_manager_handler.h`.
```

The :c:func:`pm_handler_on_pm_evt` function provides basic event handling needed for Peer Manager operation, while the other handlers provide additional functionality.
The handlers can be provided to the :c:func:`pm_register` function directly, or called from the application event handler, as in the following example where the application needs to also start scanning as a result of a Peer Manager event.

.. code-block:: c

   static void pm_evt_handler(pm_evt_t const *p_evt)
   {
      pm_handler_on_pm_evt(p_evt);
      pm_handler_disconnect_on_sec_failure(p_evt);
      pm_handler_flash_clean(p_evt);

      switch (p_evt->evt_id) {
      case PM_EVT_PEERS_DELETE_SUCCEEDED:
         scan_start();
         break;

      default:
         break;
      }
   }

We strongly recommend using the :c:func:`pm_handler_on_pm_evt` and :c:func:`pm_handler_disconnect_on_sec_failure` functions event handlers (as seen above) in central applications to ensure authentication of the peer.

> See the `peer_manager_handler.c` source file for more examples of Peer Manager event handling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the :file:`peer_manager_handler.c` source file for more examples of Peer Manager event handling.
```
